---
layout: post
title: Making maps with Javascript
---

Making maps with Javascript, or Cesium, Carto, and Leaflet (oh my!)
	
Howdy! 

Since our group came back from FOSS4G in Boston this August (many thanks to the FOSS4G folks!) our team has been looking at better ways to update and increase our data analytics productivity. 

Currently we are looking into using Cesium, Carto, and Leaflet for the majority of the maps we want to use. 

There are a few advantages for this model: 

1. There a bindings (or will soon be) for other languages for use with these libraries. (We have currently looked at using R, and Python for Leaflet) 

2. VR and AR is possible with Javascript. Which is a huge bonus for us, as we get to work with Javascript and provide mobile apps that can be used for mobile and web devices. 

3. There are a wide range of tools that make Javascript much more productive than otherwise stated. For example: we can use notepad++ and run our code directly into the browser, and have a visualized result. 

4. Time to development is a lot less overall, than using a lower level language, such as C++ or Java. 

5. Node.js changed the game, any code that was once in the browser, can run in the server, and will have a significant performance upgrade since it is powered by the V8 engine.

6. NPM is a good package manager,there was a lot of good practices in regards to package management, that was learned from Ruby Gems, which NPM takes full advantage of. The odds are that there is a library for what you want to use, and if the library doesn't exist, it won't take long to have one made, with the help of the community. 

7. The community around Javascript is HUGE. Javascript is the go to resource for most people in regards to graphics, information extraction, uploads, and for just getting the job done. Our group benefits greatly from this community, and the community itself is very welcoming.
